README.md, before:

# Snippit

A simple file snippet template management tool with flexible local configurations.

Snippit is developed by **Equals Labs** at [**Equals Collective**](https://equalscollective.com/).

## Getting started

#### For command line usage:
`$ npx snippit`
Refer to CLI usage

#### For use as a module:
`$ npm i snippit` or `$ yarn add snippit`
Refer to module usage

---

## CLI usage

```
npx snippit <snippet-name> <name> [variables]

<snippet-name>  Snippet name to look up
<name>          Core name variable
[variables]     Additional variables to pass to snippets

Options:
  --version   Show version number
  -h, --help  Show help

Examples:
  snippit example filename --variable="foo"
  Builds snippet files with assigned name and additional variable
```

---

## Module usage

Install package locally: `$ npm i snippit`

```javascript
const snippit = require('snippit');

const snippetName = `example`;
const destination = `target_directory`;
const variables = {
  foo: 'bar',
};

const { errors, files } = snippit(snippetName, destination, variables);
```

---

## Snippet configurations

Snippet configurations are stored in files named `snippits.json` as JSON objects. These contain the snippet generation directives for files and directories.

`snippit.json` configurations are read from the current working directory or destination working upwards until a configuration is found with the requested snippet name.

This allows you to keep snippet configurations out of project files if needed.

#### Example configuration

```json
{
  // Top level object items are individually named snippet rules
  "test": {
    // This would create a named directory:
    "{{@name}}_example": {
      "{{@name}}.tsx": "export const {{@name}}Template = () => console.log('This is {{@name}}.tsx')",
      "{{@name}}.module.scss": ".{{@name}} { display: none; }",
      // A sub directory:
      "tests": {
        "{{@name}}.spec.ts": "// This is a test file for {{@name}}"
      }
    }
  },
  "func": {
    // Flat files can be created without containing directories
    "{{@name}}.tsx": "export const {{@name}}Func = () => console.log('This is {{@name}}.ts')"
  },
  "varfunc": {
    "{{@name}}.variable-test.tsx": [
      // Arrays may also be used in place of strings for multiline content
      "export const {{@name}}{{@!var}} = () => {",
      "  console.log('This is {{@name}}.variable-test.ts with the variable')",
      "}"
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Variables

`snippit.json` variables are denoted by a `{{@variableName}}` syntax.

By default, you are always provided with `{{@name}}` but additional variables can be set to increase flexibility.

To explicitly require a variable prepend it with `!` (e.g. `{{@!variableName}}`). Note that this will cause failing errors if the variable is not provided when the snippet is generated.

#### Caveats

Existing files will not be overwritten and will flag errors if found. However, existing directories will simply have any valid new files written to them.

**Note:** All file names are relative to the current directory or destination. For security, any potential breakout selectors (i.e `../`, `/`, `~/`) will be removed or normalized.

Commit message:

Defaults to required vars, fixes array bug & collates variable errors properly

README.md, after:

# Snippit

A simple file snippet template management tool with flexible local configurations.

Snippit is developed by **Equals Labs** at [**Equals Collective**](https://equalscollective.com/).

## Getting started

#### For command line usage:
`$ npx snippit`
Refer to CLI usage

#### For use as a module:
`$ npm i snippit` or `$ yarn add snippit`
Refer to module usage

---

## CLI usage

```
npx snippit <snippet-name> <name> [variables]

<snippet-name>  Snippet name to look up
<name>          Core name variable
[variables]     Additional variables to pass to snippets

Options:
  --version   Show version number
  -h, --help  Show help

Examples:
  snippit example filename --variable="foo"
  Builds snippet files with assigned name and additional variable
```

---

## Module usage

Install package locally: `$ npm i snippit`

```javascript
const snippit = require('snippit');

const snippetName = `example`;
const destination = `target_directory`;
const variables = {
  foo: 'bar',
};

const { errors, files } = snippit(snippetName, destination, variables);
```

---

## Snippet configurations

Snippet configurations are stored in files named `snippits.json` as JSON objects. These contain the snippet generation directives for files and directories.

`snippit.json` configurations are read from the current working directory or destination working upwards until a configuration is found with the requested snippet name.

This allows you to keep snippet configurations out of project files if needed.

#### Example configuration

```json
{
  // Top level object items are individually named snippet rules
  "test": {
    // This would create a named directory:
    "{{@name}}_example": {
      "{{@name}}.tsx": "export const {{@name}}Template = () => console.log('This is {{@name}}.tsx')",
      "{{@name}}.module.scss": ".{{@name}} { display: none; }",
      // A sub directory:
      "tests": {
        "{{@name}}.spec.ts": "// This is a test file for {{@name}}"
      }
    }
  },
  "func": {
    // Flat files can be created without containing directories
    "{{@name}}.tsx": "export const {{@name}}Func = () => console.log('This is {{@name}}.ts')"
  },
  "varfunc": {
    "{{@name}}.variable-test.tsx": [
      // Arrays may also be used in place of strings for multiline content
      "export const {{@name}}{{@var}} = () => {",
      "  console.log('Required variable: {{@var}}');",
      "  console.log('Optional variable: {{@?optionalVar}}');",
      "}"
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Variables

`snippit.json` variables are denoted by a `{{@variableName}}` syntax.

By default, you are always provided with `{{@name}}` but additional variables can be set to increase flexibility.

Variables are explicitly required by default. To make an optional variable prepend it with `?` (e.g. `{{@?variableName}}`).

#### Caveats

Existing files will not be overwritten and will flag errors if found. However, existing directories will simply have any valid new files written to them.

**Note:** All file names are relative to the current directory or destination. For security, any potential breakout selectors (i.e `../`, `/`, `~/`) will be removed or normalized.
